My name is Elvira Prieto, I'm a sophomore in human biology here.
I'm from Reedley, California, which is a small agricultural town in the San Joaquin Valley.
My parents are migrant workers and I've worked in the fields with them all my life up until
I started coming to school.
My name is Eva Silva, I'm a senior majoring in human biology with an emphasis on education
in the diverse classroom.
And I'm from Salinas, California, and I'm going to be a math teacher.
My name is Tamara Alvarado.
I'm majoring in Spanish Chicano studies.
I'm from a town in San Diego called Escondido, and um, what else, that's it for now.
My name is Julia Gonzalez Luna, I'm a senior majoring in public policy with a focus on
education.
And um, I'm from Burbank, California.
And I'm going to be a social worker.
And I'm going to be a social worker.
And I'm going to be a social studies high school teacher.
Okay.
Um, do you want to ask some questions here as to how this started?
Yeah.
In your own words, how did it start?
How did this hunger strike start and why?
How did it start?
Speak to us as if we don't know.
Okay.
Speak to me like I'm too late.
Well I guess it was a buildup of a lot of stuff.
No.
No.
up of a lot of different things that have been happening, not only on this campus, but
overall in this nation with the status of Chicanos and Chicanas in the United States,
in the universities and everywhere else. So, you know, I guess I can run down, like, since
my freshman year so many things have happened, the closing down of the Office of Chicano
Affairs and then with all the threats, with the budget cuts to the ethnic centers and
just these attacks on the theme houses on the ethnic centers and everything else. And
then the laying off of Cecilia Burceaga. I mean everything just, like, piled on and piled
on, and so many things were happening that we said, wait, we need to do something about
it and we need to change what's going on because nothing's happening here.
We are so ludicrous.
We are so ludicrous.
Thank you for doing this.
Thank you for funding this area.
Thank you for doing this area.
happening that we want to have it.
I'm tired, I'm sorry.
Some people wonder why you would need to take a drastic measure like this.
Because the administration has been very, whenever we've had like meetings and townhouse meetings
or whatever, get togethers with any of the administrators, we don't get any results that we're happy with.
And so it seemed to me like for them to really understand how extreme the situation is on this campus
and how extreme things are outside in terms of immigrant bashing
and just the way that people in East Palo Alto are,
that it was maybe the only way that they would, I don't know if it would touch their heart
or if they would just stop to think about it or if we could get enough bad press for this university
so that they could finally just really think about it.
Because otherwise they weren't paying attention.
It was just like everything had to go business as usual.
And there seemed to be this idea about hierarchy here that it was from top down.
It was what they said first.
And then if we could deal with that, if we as students could deal with what the university wanted,
well then that was fine.
And if we couldn't, that's too bad because they're at their position because they earned it or whatever.
Yeah, because meeting after meeting, you didn't get anything concrete from meeting with them every single time.
It was just, okay, I'll give you a meeting from 6 to 7.
I'll give you a meeting from 5.30 to 6 or whatever.
We've tried their methods.
We've tried their methods of working things out.
And their methods are to draw things out for as long as possible in order to not give us things.
They may say differently, but that's what it feels like.
And it's ridiculous to have to spend so much time just talking and talking about things.
And they're trying to tire us out with just talking.
So that's what it had to come to.
And when people are not heard, and this happens in society at large,
when people are not heard, yeah, I don't know if I want to say abnormal behaviors,
but behaviors that are not normal, behaviors that are not normal are what happen.
And yeah, this is not normal.
This is not normal behavior for us to be not eating.
But, you know.
We like to eat.
Yeah, we like to eat.
We love food.
And, you know, it just, so I emphasize, you know, why are Chicanos in prison?
Why are Chicanos, you know, in poverty?
That's not normal.
That's not normal for people.
But because of society, that's how we are.
And we've waited long enough for this.
I mean, I know the administration is probably thinking, well, you know, be patient and these changes will happen.
But we've been patient long enough.
And, you know, the Chicanos study this.
Everybody's major has been, was envisioned back in the 70s, even the 60s.
And we've been waiting since then.
And it's about time that we get recognized.
You know, Chicanos are the biggest, are coming to be a majority in California and, you know,
maybe even in the whole country after a while.
But, I mean, it's about time that our issues get recognized and that other people just,
just realize that we're not going to go away.
And if they don't educate themselves about us, then it's just going to be worse for them.
Julia, you co-authored a really beautiful poem entitled Somos Mujeres.
What, for you, is the significance of having the Chicanos taking the vanguard role in this movement,
which is really bigger than this campus?
For me? I mean...
For you?
I don't know.
I didn't really realize it was for women until somebody pointed it out to us.
I don't...
I mean, we knew it was girls, but we didn't see it like, you know, oh, you know, there's no guys here.
You know, like, you know, what's up with the guys?
But, I don't know.
I mean, we have a lot of supporters that are male.
And maybe they didn't say they were going to go for the long run, but they've been, you know, there the whole time.
Yeah, everybody, like, has their roles.
And it's...
Like, there's some people that are the negotiators.
There's people that are security over here.
There's...
Like, everybody has their roles.
And, you know, we're not the most important because if it wasn't for them, then, you know, nobody would be listening to us or whatever.
And there's other people that have been fasting also.
Like, Felipe, do you know him?
He's been fasting these three days with us as well.
And, like, there's people that committed to three days and others that do one-day cycles to show their support and solidarity.
It's true.
There are a lot of males that are doing really important stuff in terms of really trying...
You know, like, with the rest of the women also, trying to take care of us and trying to watch out for this.
And they're just constantly looking out to see what, you know, what we need or what needs to be done for the whole group.
And so it's...
I don't know.
I don't know that it's specifically a female thing to be fasting or anything like that.
I don't know.
Yeah, because I think...
Because everybody really does have their own role.
And everybody's been really supportive.
And we're working together.
It's really actually...
It just so...
Yeah, it just so happened that we're the ones that...
It was crazy.
That, you know, we're the ones that, you know, were ready mentally at this time to fast.
And, you know, it just so happens that we're all women.
Yeah, people are calling us guerrilleras and revolucionarias and all that.
I mean, that's...
I mean...
That's fine.
That's nice.
You know, it's really...
That's really nice.
But, you know...
But, I mean, everybody...
Everybody's been revolutionary.
And, you know, it comes down to, like...
The focus should be on everybody.
Yeah, it comes down to, like, what your, you know...
I don't want to say your talents.
Because we're...
I don't think our talent is to be hungry.
But...
But pretty much, like, everybody has taken on the role that is best suited for themselves.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
There's Felipe.
There is Felipe.
So, you know, of all the things that you could've done, of all the actions you could've
taken, why fasting?
Why did you choose to fast?
Well, it's obviously a really strong statement.
You know, it's something that...
It's uncompromising, and it's something that shows just how serious we are about these
issues.
They're issues that...
Our fathers, grandfathers, and people way before us have fought for them.
We have a responsibility to those ancestors of ours to make sure that those dreams that
they had, that vision they had, is fulfilled.
We can't just, you know, it may be 20 years, 20, 30, 20 years later from the Chicano Movement
that people think is dead, but it's not dead.
We're here and we're living and we're the Chicano Movement.
Yeah.
Chicano, Chicana.
Chicano, Chicana.
Felipe, you just joined us, but actually you've been with us throughout this whole
struggle from the beginning as was pointed out.
Can you tell us a little bit about yourself, where you're from, and your reflection on
this struggle?
Sure.
My name is Felipe Barragan.
I'm a freshman originally from Los Angeles, California.
This struggle, I think for me, is a struggle that is very much about the struggle of the
people.
For me, it's something that's very important, because I went to high school in Watts,
and a lot of people know what Watts is like, 1965, Watts Rebellion, the Ninety-Two Riots.
There I saw issues that the educational system for high school students and Chicanos, Latinos
there, wasn't addressing the real issues.
Once I came here, I got a taste of it, I got a taste of Chicano studies, and I found out
how crucial that was.
I think that getting involved with the struggle is important for me to build the processes
with which we learn to deal with inner city, to wipe out the marginalization of our people.
In terms of your actions, a lot of people are probably thinking that you came here to
study, and that you should be in the classroom.
Not protesting.
So you're making a decision, because it is a pretty tough university to be at, and there's
a lot of demands, and you're kind of out there really taking a big chance.
How did you make that decision?
See, I guess the main thing is, when I came here, I didn't want to come and just
study, and go to class, and go back home, study, do my work, and just concentrate on
myself.
While there's people out there, there's students in the high schools that are getting pushed
out of the schools, there's the farm workers that are getting treated badly, there's kids
being born without hands because of the pesticides that they put on the grapes.
I mean, I can't just sit and concentrate on my own work, and not worry about what's going
on, because that's my people, that's my parents, that's my family.
That's everybody, and I wouldn't be able to live with myself without doing anything
about it.
I wouldn't be able to live with myself with just thinking about myself, and my career,
and getting straight A's, and doing my resumes, and stuff like that.
I wouldn't be able to do that.
I mean, both things can be done.
I think that we're doing this so that later generations of Stanford Chicanos and Chicanas
don't have to do it.
Today, we had little Chicanitas and Chicanitos from East Palo Alto come out, and they were
doing it.
They were from a group called Traices de Mexico, and they came out, and they came out and supported
us.
They're just little kids.
I don't know.
They're probably from five to twelve, maybe.
The reason we're doing this now, and sacrificing our academic times, or study hours, or whatever,
is so that when they come here, they can focus on doing the things that they need to do, and
instead of having to struggle so much.
I mean, I think it's just like our parents.
They struggle so that we don't have to struggle.
We're still struggling, but at a different level.
You know what I mean?
We don't have to worry.
Once we get out of here, we're not going to have to worry about, where am I going to get something to eat like before,
or how are we going to pay the bills.
We're probably going to be able to pay even our parents' bills.
Hopefully.
Yeah.
I think it also goes back to the question about why did we choose a hunger strike.
It's kind of like, you know, we know that our grades are going to suffer from this,
and we're not going to graduate with a great GPA as we could have.
I mean, it's to show that we know that we're capable of doing a work,
but we feel so strongly about this that we're willing to do a little bit,
you know, worse than everybody else because our issues are so important.
I mean, I think, I don't know if the administration sees that,
but I don't know if anybody sees that.
But I mean, you know, I know that I could be an A student, you know,
but, you know, I choose to better be like,
to be a human being.
Yeah.
To be a human being first and to care more about my people than about my grades.
I was going to ask you, you know, related to the incident that happened on Sunday
at the Flix, at the film, notaries of shows,
how do you feel or what steps can the university take to educate the student community,
even staff and faculty, about the issue of, you know,
racism, the issue of why it's important to have abandoned graves on this campus?
How do you think the university can take a proactive role in educating the community?
I think if they really, truly believe that that isn't right,
that the incident at Flix isn't right,
or that people should know and should believe, I mean,
understand that the pesticides and the harm that they're doing to people is wrong,
then they should take it upon themselves to educate the students.
If they really feel responsible for the education of their students,
if they really, if they believe that that is an important issue,
that people's lives and people's health and the reaction of some or a lot of students
finding that amusing, there's something wrong with that.
There's something wrong with the mentality or with the ignorance level
or something of the students at this university,
and they are responsible because they're the administrators.
They're in charge of this school.
They're here to serve the students,
but they're also here to help educate them.
And there's, I mean, to me that proved just a lot of ignorance.
It didn't surprise me, but it was very offensive and it was very disrespectful.
And if they really, if they agree with that at all,
then it's their responsibility to deal with it.
I mean, the main things that were, you know,
just to bring up what we're striking about,
you know, we have these issues that we have been dealing with as a community for a long time.
And, you know,
one of them being a campus ban on grapes,
the development of a Chicano studies program,
and the community center in Hispalo Alto.
And, you know, these are things that we can talk about specifically.
And the offer for Cecilia Bulciaga.
And the offer for a high-level position for Cecilia Bulciaga,
a high-level administrator here.
Chicano administrator.
Why is it important for the university to recognize Cecilia's contributions?
Why is Cecilia's position, Cecilia's role, included among these other three?
Well, basically because it ties down to the whole approach that we're taking,
that our education isn't addressing the real issues.
You know, the issues being poverty, the joblessness,
and, you know, the over-representation we have in the jails,
and just everything.
And she ties into that because Cecilia has always worked, you know, for those issues.
She's always, you know, she was working on the Boycott Grapes campaign.
And, I mean, and when she gets here, I mean, when she's here, you get here,
I mean, she's like a role mother.
She's a role model.
She's a role mother.
Oh, man, I can't, I'm getting tired.
Oh, no, you're good.
Yeah, what we're talking about, she's a role model and a role mother.
Mother figure.
Mother figure.
That's it.
No, I guess basically because she helps in just keeping us here.
Because it's hard to survive in a campus like this.
When you have people like Sunday nights at Flick saying,
Beaners go home or, you know, saying stuff like that here at Stanford.
I mean, how are we supposed to survive in a climate that doesn't even accept us,
that you have to justify your existence?
And you need people like Cecilia Burciaga and like Francis that just help you out
just to make, like, especially the transition from, like, your first year.
I mean, that's what helped me.
What helped me so much living in Zapata my very first year is, you know,
I survived the whole year because I was living there, I think.
Because, I mean, she helped out a lot, like, with my parents and just everything.
I mean, I think, like, they're always caring for you.
She's an important contact for us.
I mean, there's so few of us here.
And then there's so few of our, you know, Chicano and Chicana role models here
that we can, you know, talk to.
And say, you know, hey, you know, this happened to me today.
Or, you know, I really, it's really strange for me to be here and not be back home
where I see a lot of people who look like myself, you know.
And these are people that you can talk to.
Like Cecilia, you know, she's, I mean, I find it incredible.
She always has time to hear us out, always.
Yeah, when I was a freshman, like, I have a really nice story about her that,
when I, well, I didn't, for some dumb chance,
I didn't get to live in Zapata my freshman year.
And so, so, like, I had a lot of problems, like, just trying to adapt
and trying to, trying to decide, like, what I was going to do with my life.
And I had this whole big problem about deciding whether to be a doctor
and secure a good financial future for myself and for my family
or do what I really wanted to do, which was to be a teacher.
And my advice to her was, you know,
my freshman advisor recommended that I go to her
because he had heard so many nice things about her
that he thought she could help me.
And I remember going into her office and just, like, crying my guts out
because I didn't know what, I didn't know where I fit into this university.
And she talked, she had time, like, she sat with me in her office
and talked to me and encouraged me to do what I felt was right,
you know, to let my heart decide.
And, I mean, for the university not to recognize
that she is capable of, like, keeping me here because I was ready to leave.
And she, she literally made me, helped me to stay.
And if it wasn't for her, I mean, I wouldn't be here.
All of you are members of METCHA, Movimiento Estudiantil Chicanos.
That's long, that's long history.
What, what if, what is the significance of this new phase?
And I'm referring specifically to the various events that started at UCLA,
UC Santa Barbara, Colorado, University of Colorado, and Michigan State.
Virginia, too.
Virginia, too.
Can you talk about this in the context of the overall resurgence of METCHA
and Chicano student activism?
I think as METCHA is the Chicano student movement,
and there's a long history of activism there.
And I think that each of us has maintained that goal of the betterment of la raza.
And our METCHA is, is very strong.
And we support what those founding METCHAistas came up with
in terms of the plan of Santa Barbara.
And it's gaining, it's, and UCLA, and, and, you know,
UC Santa Barbara, and other universities, METCHA members,
and other organizations are taking leadership
and moving the universities to meet the demands.
I think it's playing an instrumental role.
They got misquoted?
Are they in support?
So what happened?
That sucks, man.
I feel bad for my neighbor.
Oh, yeah.
Sorry.
Sorry.
I was gonna ask you, I know earlier I talked to, you know,
your dad earlier, and I talked to your mom.
And I know from them that it's been really hard for them.
I mean, they haven't been eating as well.
They're also, in a way, also in the hunger strike.
How do you feel about your parents' role in this?
How?
How are you gonna explain it to your parents once it's over
and you haven't really explained it to them?
Provide courage and that kind of thing.
When I, well, I told, my biggest worry in terms of deciding
to take part in the fast was how my mom was gonna take it.
Because I thought she was gonna, you know, get, she's an asthmatic
and I thought she was gonna get sick because any time she stresses out,
she has really bad attacks and stuff.
And I just, I just knew I was gonna worry her and I was gonna hurt her.
And that was the thing that scared me the most.
But I talked to her about it and I kind of eased her into it.
I started telling her first about the plan to stay out of the quarter
and stuff like that.
And she was like, well, she told me, before I even mentioned to her
that I was gonna fast, she said, well, Mija, when you are leading,
when you are a leader and you want to take part in changing things
when they're bad, sometimes you have to make sacrifices.
She said, and, you know, whatever happens, you guys, you know,
you have my prayers and you have my support.
And so then when I told her, she was like, oh, and I guess she maybe understood
or was getting, you know, thought that I was gonna get to that.
Because I told her and she was like, well, she said, I'm not gonna tell you to do it
and I'm not gonna tell you not to do it because I don't want to feel responsible
for you doing it and I don't want to feel responsible for you feeling bad
because maybe, you know, it didn't succeed or because you weren't, you know,
you really didn't want to do what you wanted to.
She said, but I'm really scared.
But she said that she had faith in God and as long as I had faith in God
that everything was gonna be okay.
And so for me, it was very empowering because the minute I got off the phone,
I decided.
I really felt strongly about it already and I decided that this was something
I was gonna do.
And even though I was gonna cause her a lot of pain, that I was gonna get through it
and that she was gonna get through it.
And I'm pretty sure that she hasn't been eating either.
And I haven't been able to speak with her since that last time I talked to her.
But like she told me, she said, you know, she said for herself that she's already
past her youth and she doesn't know that she can do that much anymore.
And she said, it's our turn.
And so here we are.
We're trying to make changes because I don't want to, I really don't want my little brother
to have to do something like this.
And I have a younger sister who's here also and I don't want her to have to, you know,
continue this.
I mean, she probably won't have to just because that's the way things are around here.
But, you know, if I could, if I can help out in some way so that, you know, the kids that
come here later don't have to be going through this, then that would be awesome.
So, yeah.
I have a question.
How has the university administration...
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
Do you want to go?
Yeah.
Okay.
I guess that was the hardest thing for me as well.
It's like, I knew, like when we thought of the idea, I knew that I wanted to do it.
I wanted to be part of the hunger strike.
I just knew that I could do it and I was going to have the willpower to go through with it.
But the only thing was my mom.
I didn't know.
I didn't know how to tell her.
I didn't know what to tell her.
I was scared.
Because I know that the way my mom is, she worries and she doesn't sleep at night and
she can't eat and it's just, it's bad.
I hate it.
I don't like doing that to her because she still works and she's getting older and everything.
But, I don't know, it's just something I felt so deep from my heart.
I just thought, you know, so many people are going to gain a lot from this.
So many people are going to, you know, have a lot of things come out of this, especially
like with the East Palo Alto Community Center and with the boycott on the graves.
It's just immediate, like, help for people that are practically, that are dying and,
you know, being born with birth defects.
So, when I told her, you know, she was telling me, you know, she didn't want me to do it.
She was telling me I'm anemic, that I was anemic.
Then my dad told me I had a low red blood cell count.
And they were just coming up with all these things that I had that I should be doing.
Because I was so skinny and I was going to disappear and this and that.
So then, um, oh, sorry.
So then, um, after, oh, when I told her, I mean, it was really hard.
She was crying and everything.
And then I called her after the first day of the hunger strike.
And she couldn't talk to me because she didn't want to cry on the phone.
So that, that just made me, I was just crying.
I was talking to my sister.
And my sister was, you know, I was telling her, tell my mom that I'm not hungry.
Tell her that I'm feeling good.
The issues are keeping me alive.
And they're going to keep me alive.
And I'm going to be okay.
So, um, but she's going to come today because she's, she's worried.
And she wants to see me.
Well, uh, the hardest part of this whole thing was just to, to tell my mom and dad, you know,
that I was going to do this.
Because, like, we've all said, you know, we don't want to make them, you know,
we don't want to make them suffer.
But, uh, I told her and she said, um, you know, okay, well, if you guys are still out
there after three days, then I'm going to come out.
And then the right, like, a few minutes before I left, I was talking to her.
Y me estaba dando la bendición.
Do I have to translate that?
Oh, okay.
And then, um, and then, um, so, you know, she was, she was crying and I could tell.
And she was giving me the bendición.
And so she was like, you know what?
I'm going to be out there tomorrow and stuff.
And, you know, my mom and dad got some money together and then, so my mom could fly out
here and stuff.
And, um, so she, she came out last night and, I mean, I think it was better for her to come
because she, you know, she was upset when she saw me and she was crying and stuff.
But, you know, she's been really good and everybody's been really supportive of her
and she's been, I think it makes her feel good to feel useful to this, to this thing.
She feels a part of, a part of this strike.
And, you know, she feels a part of the movement.
And, you know, I think that, you know, she is because, you know, we're fighting, I'm
fighting for her and for everybody.
And, um, you know, she slept out there with us last night.
So she's hardcore.
Um, for me, that, that was definitely the hardest part because, and after I did it,
I was, I wished that I didn't, that I didn't have to, but I know that I, that if I hadn't,
it would have been worse for her if she had found out some other way.
So, um, I'm just really worried about her because she has heart problems.
And, um, I was afraid that if she saw me on the news or something, that, you know,
, you know, everything would be worse.
But, but, you know, she's fine and, and she already told me that she supports me.
And, and even though it's the, the hardest thing, you know, for her, like, she knows,
I told her that it was her who taught me.
It was her who taught me how to fight.
And maybe that, hopefully that made her feel a little bit better.
But maybe, hopefully, I don't know.
I don't know exactly how she is.
Uh, last time I talked to her, she sounded very weak.
And, um, my dad called me, like, the next morning, the morning after I told my mom.
And he tried his hardest to convince me not to do it.
He told me all kinds of things.
And he told me, why do you want to, why do you want to go through another hunger
after you've suffered so many hungers in your life?
And just reminding me of all the things that I've had to go through just to get where I am.
And trying to tell me, well, don't, you know, don't do it.
But I still did it.
And he's here right now.
And he came and told me, he's still trying to convince me to stop.
Because he goes, he says, you know, your mom's going to come up here tomorrow.
And if you're still on the strike, she's going to strike with you.
So, I don't know.
I think, generally, my parents have the same feelings as all the others do.
But it's a little bit easier for them to handle because tonight's going to be my last day fasting.
So, that's basically it.
Last word?
Um, well, okay.
You said it's for historical purposes, right?
So, when, um, you know, 20 years from now when other Chicanos look at this.
And Chicanas.
And Chicanas.
Sorry.
Sorry.
I'm tired.
Um, you know, one other hint to see this.
Just to remember that, you know, even when you're looking at this now, 20 years later,
the movement is still alive in you.
And we still have to keep struggling because, you know.
Well, hopefully, we can stop.
Hopefully, we can stop some of it.
But, I mean, if it's still, if it's still bad, you know, 20 years from now, you know, we can do it, you know.
Yeah.
It's awesome.
And it's cool that you're not scared of what, you know, what you have.
I guess, like, for us it's very important to say, oh, we have el centro and there's a lot of people that worked hard for it.
Don't settle for what you have.
Don't settle for what you have.
And don't forget us, pretty much.
Don't forget the people who fought before you.
All the things, like the people that fought before us and before us and before them.
And just remember, you know, we're doing this for you for the future.
For the youth.
my name is
the new message is this
it is currently about 7 30 on the 6th of may friday 1994 we have just collected
witnessed the five testimonials from from five of the of the hunger strikers which have included
at one point over 100 solidarity strikers
um
and
and
at this time we've received the latest response from the administration which has been recalcitrant
up to this point and uh i understand that there's still many points that need to be go
need to be reviewed and some more dialogue that needs to be that needs to take place but at the
moment it looks as though a statement that that we have made as a community the chicanos community
and a statement that comes from various communities throughout the bay area and the nation
in solidarity with us
has
open or begun to open the administration's eyes to the justness of our cause and our demands
however as i said there still is some work to be done for the moment it seems as though
our first demand that is the the offering of a high level position to associate dean
cecilia bursiaga is still not being met and as i said this is our first demand and it's very
important to us
uh
so more negotiation has to
go on with regards to that
the second demand
involves
the establishment of a community center in the special although
to serve
that literally works
to preserve the functioning of this university
as
far as the university's administration
the administration
is concerned
uh...
They are receptive to the initiative that the Chicano and Chicana students have presented
in terms of bridging the gap between the community and the academy.
This has been a very important component to the struggle here.
As a matter of fact, this is a component that isn't new.
It goes all the way back to the Plan de Santa Barbara, which inaugurated Mecha.
So we are very hopeful that some breakthrough will come through here.
As regards to the Chicano and Chicana studies, again, this is the justness and the feasibility
of this demand has led the administration to also give overtures that are encouraging.
Finally, the issue of grapes on campus has, and specifically,
the negative impact on the community.
The reactions, the racist reactions to our efforts to educate the community at Stanford
has, and our protests against those negative reactions, has led the university to embark
upon an initiative to educate all the dorms through the showing of the No Grapes video
and also through establishing a dialogue with our community, the Chicano community, in an
effort to bridge the gap.
To bridge the gaps that have been caused, to bridge the divisions that have been caused
by the racism that's very often a result of an academy which is very hierarchical and
one which is institutionally and structurally hostile to the presence of minorities and
other marginalized people.
With this, I would just like to say, que viva la raza y adelante.
We're going to win this one.
We're going to win this one.
